---
layout: post
title: AJAX
category: javascript
---

AJAX = *Asynchronous JavaScript And Xml*

Based on Javascript and HTTP Requests (more importantly the XmlHttpRequest).

#### Code

    function ajaxFunction()
    {
    var xmlHttp;
    try
    {
    // Firefox, Opera 8.0+, Safari
    xmlHttp=new XMLHttpRequest();
    }
    catch (e)
    // ..IE / Opera ..
    }
    xmlHttp.open("GET","time.asp",true);
    xmlHttp.send(null);
    }

First create a variable to store your returned data, _xmlHttp_, create your new XMLHttpRequest() object.

The two lines at the bottom fire the GET request and the time.asp code for a value, _true_ tell it's to treat this as asynchronous (e.g. don't wait around for the answer). The final line actually sends the request.

    xmlHttp.onreadystatechange=function()
    {
    if(xmlHttp.readyState==4) {
    // handle returned data
    document.myForm.time.value=xmlHttp.responseText;
    }
    }

The .responseText stores the data and is used to change the time value in the form myForm of our html document.

states:
* 0 = request not initialised
* 1 = request setup
* 2 = request sent
* 3 = in progress
* 4 = request complete

#### The Calling Object

We could use .NET, Java or PHP, but to keep this example really simple here's the calling file _time.asp_

    <%
    response.expires=-1
    response.write(time)
    %>

This simply sets the object expiry period and responds to the request, sending back a value.

#### How do we fire it?

Really simple, just tie the _ajaxFunction() to an event within your html document, like so...

    <input type="text" +onkeyup="ajaxFunction();" name="username" />

So when the user key's up (moves away from the username textbox) the ajaxFunction() will be fired.

#### Other Events

onblur = element loses focus (clicks away)<br />
onchange = content changes (user types in box)<br />
onfocus = element gets focus (clicks box / button)<br />
onload = page or image is finished loading<br />
onselect = text is selected<br />
onsubmit = submit button is clicked, form data submitted)<br />
